All right guys, welcome back.
Hopefully, I did not overwhelm you with
what we covered in the last two lectures.
To recap again, we just covered how
the internet transfers information
from one server to your computer.
First it goes through an Internet Service Provider
or an ISP, then through a local modem,
then through a router, then to your computer or phone.
Is there more to that process?
Yes, absolutely.
Do you need to know the rest?
No, not really.
You can learn that stuff on your own time,
because we just want to
get through the basics so that
we can get to the actual good stuff.
Ok, in this lecture we're going to cover
yet three more concepts
that are crucial to understanding how the internet works.
I also knew that you were craving another three concepts.
The first one is the concept of domain names,
the second is the concept of IP addresses,
and the last is a system called the DNS.
Now, in the last lecture we just talked about the pathways
information has to take to get to and from your device.
But now let's talk about just how it is that
when we type in www.hamsterdance.com
it takes us to a page of dancing hamsters
and not to a page of, let's say, knitting.
If you're too young to remember hamsterdance,
then I'm genuinely sorry.
It was one of the joys of the early internet.
So when you open up your browser,
and we've already covered
what HTTP and WWW are, what happens?
Well, to understand this, we have to understand
what the concept of an IP address means.
If you remember from an earlier lecture,
IP stands for Internet Protocol
and it's essentially a nine digit string of
numbers stuck together with periods.
Fascinating stuff, yes, I know.
The easiest way to think about IP addresses is just
to think of them like a bank routing number,
you know, those numbers at the bottom of
your checks that you don't write anymore,
or even better yet, think of them like telephone numbers.
This is going to be shocking to the younger crowd,
but once upon a time
we actually used to type in the number
of the person we wanted to call,
and that required that you memorized their number.
And if you moved to a new area code,
everything got so much more complicated.
Well, IP addresses are just like that.
Computers use IP addresses to
find the location of your computer,
or alternatively find the server that you're
trying to get the information from.
They're the addresses of the web and
every connected device has one.
Yes, even the computer you're using right
this second has its own unique IP address.
Who decides this number?
I don't know, either God or the ISP.
So, how much more do you actually
need to know about IP addresses?
Well, to be honest, nothing.
There is an insane amount of detail you could
get into about why they are the way they are,
but if I had to teach you that, I think I would quit.
What you do need to know is that
every time you type a domain name
into your web browser, your browser actually has no idea
where the server holding that information for that domain is.
The way it figures it out is through what's
called the DNS, which is our third concept,
and it stands for the Domain Name System.
If you at home were trying to guess what the DNS stands for,
and you said something like Domain Name Server,
or Service, you would be wrong,
and somewhere out there there is a
dev ops engineer that just shed a single tear.
The DNS is a loose configuration of roughly
eight trillion (that's a rough guess) servers
that hold one piece of information: what IP address
is associated with what domain name.
That's it. You say you want to go to hamsterdance,
your computer asks the DNS
"Donde esta la hamsterdance?"
and it responds with 12.586.07.23
and away you go towards your dancing hamster website.
Pretty simple, but worth understanding.
Now, when you purchase or buy a domain,
you'll need to attach it to a web server
to host your application or site. In order to do that you have to
update the DNS as to where that information is going to be stored.
Ok, are you ready for one last term that
you can learn in roughly four seconds?
Have you ever heard of the ICANN, spelled I-C-A-N-N?
It stands for the International Corporation of Associated Names and Numbers
and it's the non-profit overlord that rules over all of these things
and decides if your domain name you're craving is actually available.
So, get it? DNS just tells your browser,
"Hey, that's a funny url name,
here's the IP address to find it,"
and the ICANN is what you use to understand who
owns that domain and whether or not it's available.
Gross oversimplification, but it doesn't really matter.
All right guys, that's it for now, see you in the next lecture!